content/blog/250814-zotero-hero.md, before:

---
Title: "Zotero: from zero to hero"
Date: 2025-08-14T11:31:16+01:00
---
As an ex-frontend developr (building websites), I‘m fairly technically-savvy, although I’d never used any reference management software before. 

I installed [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) a few weeks ago, after exploring the joys of publishing my [masters reading list](/masters/reading/) in [Cardiff Harvard Referencing citation format](https://xerte.cardiff.ac.uk/play_4191#page1). Geek out ✌️ 🤓. But what use was Zotero?

My daytime PC runs [Linux Mint](https://www.linuxmint.com/), and my PDF reader of choice is [Okular](https://okular.kde.org/en-gb/) -- lightweight, fast, with ability to highlight text. However, my tablet runs Android, and the choice of PDF readers is peculiarly bad and invasive (Adobe, Foxit etc). It was then that I realised, Zotero handles PDFs! Magnificent, and I can reference, highlight and annotate to my heart’s content.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/growdigital/image/upload/v1755170025/250814-zotero-screenshot.webp)  
_Screenshot of The Dawn of Everything, annotated in Zotero_

This is the use of Zotero.

Commit message:

update blog with library and ocr

content/blog/250814-zotero-hero.md, after:

---
Title: "Zotero: from zero to hero"
Date: 2025-08-14T11:31:16+01:00
---
As an ex-frontend developr (building websites), I‘m fairly technically-savvy, although I’d never used any reference management software before. 

I installed [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) a few weeks ago, after exploring the joys of publishing my [masters reading list](/masters/reading/) in [Cardiff Harvard Referencing citation format](https://xerte.cardiff.ac.uk/play_4191#page1). Geek out ✌️ 🤓. But what use was Zotero?

My daytime PC runs [Linux Mint](https://www.linuxmint.com/), and my PDF reader of choice is [Okular](https://okular.kde.org/en-gb/) -- lightweight, fast, with ability to highlight text. However, my tablet runs Android, and the choice of PDF readers is peculiarly bad and invasive (Adobe, Foxit etc). It was then that I realised, Zotero handles PDFs! Magnificent, and I can reference, highlight and annotate to my heart’s content.

![Screenshot of Zotero software, showing annotations in left column, highlighted text in right](https://res.cloudinary.com/growdigital/image/upload/v1755170025/250814-zotero-screenshot.webp)  
_Screenshot of The Dawn of Everything, annotated in Zotero_

This is the use of Zotero.
### Addendum
Of course, there are other types items that you can install into your library and collections. They don‘t have to be PDFs, they can be the title (eg of a physical book) and then you can add annotations to that title. I'm guessing you can also add audio, video, images, text files etc.
![Screenshot of list of items in Zotero software](https://res.cloudinary.com/growdigital/image/upload/v1755177230/250814-zotero-items.webp)  
_My masters’ items_

And then, for large lumps of text to annotate, you can scan a page of your book as a PDF, import into Zotero and then use the [Zotero PDF plugin](https://www.jdavidstark.com/how-to-extract-text-from-image-only-pdfs-with-zotero/) to transform the PDF into text selectable (you still see the image but also you can copy and past the text).
