---
title: 1. Module overview
tags:
draft: false
date: 2025-10-03T15:11:48+01:00
modified: 2025-10-04T22:57:05+01:00
---
## Today
1. Transport Futures
2. Course overview and assessment
3. Transport policy introduction
4. Group work
## Module learning outcomes
1. Define and critically assess the main environmental, social and economic impacts of a range of surface transport modes and spatial arrangements within wider issues of economic growth and accumulation
2. Identify and implement key components of transport project appraisal in relation to achieving sustainability, liveability and accessibility.
3. Assess the social, environmental and distributional impacts of a range of sustainable transport policies and mode choices.
4. Critically examine the efficacy of contemporary solutions in a range of contexts.
Key themes:
5. sustainability
6. liveability
7. accessibility
## Schedule
Assessment one and two already up.
Presentations Week 9 - 
### Week 2 
-allan 
surface transport problems
seminar mapping problems & generating insights
### Week 3 
allan - lecture what 
Mirka - seminar preparing for Cogan site visit
### Week 4 
2.15 - Cogan station car park
Cathay to Cogans, train
### Week 5
Allan - lecture accessibility and TfL PTAL
Seminar - Mirka , calculating accessibilty with environmental? justice
### Week 6 - reading week
### Week 7 
Workshop by Transport for Wales. Developing preferred options.
### Week 8 
Lecture - making policy - objectives, mechanisms, targets and option development
Seminar - Assessment 1 surgery
### Week 9 
Individual presentation
### Week 10 
Workshop: WelTAG stage one, student led.
Delivering active travel scheme
### Week 11
Lecture - summary lecture
Seminar:

Streets Ahead podcast - recommended

### Assessment 1 - Invidivual site briefing presentation
- Policy Briefing on Cogan Site
- 40% of grades
### Assessment 2 - Group report
- Cogal WelTAG Report
- 60% of grades
#### Main elements of report
1. Assessment of site
2. Identify key problems generated by movement
3. Overview differential levels of accesss
4. Objectives to remedy problems
5. List options 3-4
6. Prioritise list 1-2
7. Existing policy context